hey everybody vanessa here for motive
nutrition we're in the kitchen today
making rosemary sweet potato fries
so this sweet potato actually has very
little to do with the actual potato
there are from two completely different
families and nutritionally speaking this
guy has the edge and it has a lot to do
with its color so this sorry vegetable
is actually one of the best vegetable
sources of beta-carotene now
beta-carotene is what gives sweet potato
that bright orange color and it's
actually a really powerful antioxidant
so we hear about antioxidants all of the
time and basically they're substances
that fight free radicals now free
radicals are little scavengers that
damage our cells in the body and that's
why a lot of the research surrounding
beta-carotene has shown that it can
prevent things like cancer heart disease
macular degeneration all that to say
that we definitely want to load up on
beta carotene rich foods now you can
enjoy sweet potatoes in so many
different ways you can start by
preparing them in any way you would
prepare regular potatoes you can enjoy
them grilled you can enjoy them baked
steam you can match them you can use the
flesh and puree them and baked goods
like muffins and pancakes and even in
smoothies but today we're going to use
them in one of my favorite basic
preparations we're going to make sweet
potato fries I like to cook them up with
rosemary here's how I good the first
thing you want to do is wash your sweet
potato because we're going to be keeping
the skin on this is important because a
lot of the fiber most of the fiber is in
the actual skin and when we cut them
into fries and notice that the skin
actually gives a really nice texture and
it helps the fries pull together a bit
better so you want to make sure that you
watch these properly with a vegetable
brush the next thing that you want to do
is just slice the ends off like this and
now we're going to cut them into fries
the easiest way to do this so you want
to start by just leveling off one side
so using a good knife
my name is this on the side and level it
down this way now you want to slice it
in rows like this and this is how you're
going to determine the thickness of your
actual fry so we're looking for fries
that are going to be about a half an
inch thick so I'm going to start slicing
these up so what we found up with our
thicker slices like this all right so
now what we want to do to make your
fries is just slice them the other way
and long stress like so all right so
we've got our sliced up sweet potato
fries in a bowl and that we're going to
add about 1 tablespoon of olive oil just
enough now depending on the size of your
sweet potato you might need a little bit
more but what you're looking for is for
them to be coated you just want them to
be glossy you don't want to wanted to
drown you wanted me two months to just
toss these lost one and we're going to
add to that one sprig of rosemary that
I've talked up really really really
finely and this is important because
it's difficult to chew on so we want to
make sure they're in really really small
small pieces so we're going to add the
fresh rosemary here and about a half a
teaspoon of kosher salt now toss all
that was your hands clean hands until
it's about really cool all right so now
they're nice laptop I'm going to lay
them on a baking sheet that's lined with
parchment paper and you want to spread
them out make sure you get all of that
in there and it's really important that
it's spread out properly when you crowd
the pan too much what happens is they're
no longer baking you're no longer
roasting you're actually steaming and if
you want to get a nice coating a nice
crisp on these little guys you want to
make sure they're well spread apart all
right that's it so we're going to
put this into the oven at 425 for 10
minutes and after 10 minutes we're just
going to flip these over and then we're
going to add it in to the oven again for
another 25 minutes so it's about 30 to
35 minutes total depending on your honor
all right these are looking good so came
out of the oven they've been cooking for
about 35 minutes and they're just about
ready now these are great as a side dish
you can sort them with anything and
we're really fast to prepare um try to
give you an idea just so you can see
down and so they're nice and toasty they
hold up really well like a fry I want to
burn my home we're so good these are
great so like I said you can enjoy them
as as a side dish with one any meal they
prepare in about ten minutes takes a
little bit of time for them to hook up
but in the meantime you can prepare the
rest of your man so I hope you enjoyed
today's video if you want the full
recipe for these rosemary sweet potato
fries head on over to motive nutrition
calm and you'll find the recipe there
and while you're at it you guys could
check out the mailing list and subscribe
and you'll get email updates every time
there is something new on the website
and you could also subscribe to these
videos on this channel by clicking on
the link below the screen right here so
of course for more information on back
to basics eating real food and taking
charge of your health head on over to
motive nutrition calm thanks for
watching and I'll see you next time
hmm